Assignment name: Assignment 5 
TCSS 305: Programming Practicum, Spring 2017

Name: Jacob Reed
UWNetID: jrreed
Subversion Revision Number:47
Extensions Used: 0

Assignment Overview:
The purpose of part B of this assignment was to finish the implementation and do the back end code to get the front end from part A fully working properly.


Technical Impression:
To complete part B of this assignment I was mostly done from part A, all I needed to do was implement the tools to get them all working properly and get some of the other features complete such as Fill and clear. I was having some issues at first with my colors, right clicking should of drawn with the secondary color, but the secondary color only showed after creating another shape after the first one. I fixed this by using repaint() in the appropriate areas. The implementation of all the tools and drawing their shape to be returned was easy except the square and circle, which initially I thought would be easy, just use the same code from rectangle and ellipse but lock the width and height. This proved more difficult than I imagined because the circle and square would drag with the mouse in unintended directions. I fixed this by using a minimum/maximum approach and eventually got it to work beautifully (I think). I was having some issues with my fill as well, which was working as intended when I selected it, it would fill the shapes, but after unselecting it, it unfilled all the shapes. I fixed this by adding a parameter to the shapes to hold the fill Boolean, since the shapes were being added to a list. I also had an issue with the eraser, after selecting the eraser, all other shapes after using the eraser would draw in white, this was fixed by storing the previous used colors as eraser was used, which then I used to set the colors once again upon selecting a new tool. Overall, I think my application is working as intended. I definitely would of liked to use the observer implementation we used and class as well as maybe do a little decomposition of my tools and actions to make them less redundant, but that is something I feel would take another week to complete so I will save that methodology for my next project.


Unresolved problems in my submission:
None

Questions:
None

